Updated Onboarding, Offboarding, and Socials (#87)
kossiitkgp/docs: community/onboarding-offboarding.md

# Onboarding/Offboarding

## How to onboard someone in KOSS?
1. Add them to the “Newbies” GitHub team.
1. Add them to the kossiitkgp@ Google Group. Check the delivery settings. Anyone can ask to join using this link https://groups.google.com/g/kossiitkgp
1. Add them to the Slack. Ask each one to install the Slack desktop and mobile apps and enable notifications to not miss out any important updates.
1. Add them to their batch’s private channel.
1. Add their contact details on https://github.com/kossiitkgp/secrets.
1. Assign their 1:1 group.

> 1. Add their name to the website.

Reviewer: Should we also add bhattu here or are we planning on some automation to do that?

Author: Adding for now.

1. Give access to KOSS’s facebook page.
1. Make them store numbers of everyone in team using the automatically generated VCFs in the secrets repository.
1. Ask them to create their batch's private Whatsapp group and add it to the "Kossverse" community. 
1. Create a Whatsapp group with the Executives + CTMs and name it `KOSS XX` where `XX` is the sum of the last two digits of the batch years of the executives and CTMs. Eg: Batch of '21 and batch of '22 will have a whatsapp group named `KOSS 43`. (Credits to [@rakaar](https://github.com/rakaar) for the naming scheme).

> 1. Create a Whatsapp group with all the advisors (B.Tech and Dual), Executives, and CTMs, and name it `KOSS XX` where `XX` is the sum of the last two digits of their batch years.

Reviewer: All in-campus advisors should be definitely present. How about advisors (last 2 batches), execs and ctms?

Author: Are non-incampus people called advisors?

Reviewer: Yes. All the alumni are advisors. But adding everyone seems a bit too much no?
That's why I was suggesting the latest 2 batches of advisors. In that case some members of the oldest batch will be alums but that's fine ig. Give them an option to either join grp or not :)

Author: I assumed only on campus people are called advisors, so assumed it is the last two batches. [This](https://github.com/kossiitkgp/docs/blob/master/community/governance.md#hierarchy) section supports my assumption.

Author: I'll still add the on campus clause

Author: done

1. Add both of the above groups to the `Kossverse` Whatsapp community.

> 1. The purpose of the Whatsapp groups is promotions, bakaar, and motiviation to use Slack. This should be made clear to the new members and they should be encouraged to use Slack as the main medium of communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The purpose of the Whatsapp groups is promotions, bakaar, and motivation to use Slack. It will be an unofficial platform for communication. This should be made clear to the new members and they should be encouraged to use Slack as the main medium of communication.
```

## How to re-designate Core Team Members as Executives?
1. Make all Executives the Admins of Slack workspace and add them to the `#emails` channel. 
1. Make all new executives enable two-factor authentication on their Github accounts before proceeding with the further steps. The following steps give access to crucial organization repositories and settings.
1. Add all Executives to the `Admins` team on GitHub org. Remove them from the `Newbies` team.
1. Replace all members of the `Executives` team on the Github org with the new executives.
1. Ask an Owner of kossiitkgp GitHub org to change role of Executives as `Owners`.

> 1. Make Executive Heads the Managers of the Google Group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make Executives the Managers of the Google Group.
```

# Onboarding/Offboarding

## How to onboard someone in KOSS?
1. Add them to the “Newbies” GitHub team.
1. Add them to the kossiitkgp@ Google Group. Check the delivery settings. Anyone can ask to join using this link https://groups.google.com/g/kossiitkgp

> 1. Add them to the Slack. Ask each one to install the Slack desktop and mobile apps and enable notifications to not miss out any important updates.

Reviewer 2: Or we can also say it as, "Make them install.." as done in points ahead.

> 1. Add them to the Slack. Ask each one to install the Slack desktop and mobile apps and enable notifications to not miss out any important updates.

Author: It's certainly not a recommendation, everyone should have slack installed or they just miss notifs. I'll make it "make them".

> 1. Add them to the Slack. Ask each one to install the Slack desktop and mobile apps and enable notifications to not miss out any important updates.

Author: done

1. [Transfer access](./socials.md#transferring-access) of Social media accounts.
1. Release the names from blog/facebook page.
1. Update the “Members” section on the website.
1. Make a few randomly chosen executives admins of the "Kossverse" Whatsapp community while removing the graduating admins. There is a limit of 20 admins.

## How to re-designate Executives as Advisors?
1. Make all Advisors the Owners of Slack workspace.
1. Make all Advisors the Owners of the Google Group.
1. Add all new Advisors to the `Advisors` team on GitHub and move graduated advisors to the `Alumni` team. 
1. Update Contacts README on `kossiitkgp/secrets`.
1. Update the “Members” section on the website.

## How to offboard someone from KOSS?
1. Remove them from the GitHub organization.
1. Disable their account on Slack (Contact an owner if they are admin).
1. Remove them from the Google group (Contact owners of group).
1. Update the Contacts on https://github.com/kossiitkgp/secrets.
1. Update the “Members” section on the website - https://kossiitkgp.org.
1. Remove access to KOSS’ facebook page.
1. Remove their access to KOSS gsuite account if they have access.

> 1. Update any passwords they had access to. Notify the password change on Slack.

Author: Is it fine to mention the passwords repo directly even if it is not accessible?

> 1. Update any passwords they had access to. Notify the password change on Slack.

Reviewer 2: obviously? Anyways others can't see, and those who should can see ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

> 1. Update any passwords they had access to. Notify the password change on Slack.

Author: ok i follow you proffuhrer

> 1. Update any passwords they had access to. Notify the password change on Slack.

Author: done
